= Showoff Presenter

Showoff is a slideshow presentation tool with a twist. It runs as a web application,
with audience interactivity features. This means that your audience can follow along
in their own browsers, can download supplemental materials, can participate in quizzes
or polls, post questions for the presenter, etc. By default, their slideshows will
synchronize with the presenter, but they can switch to self-navigation mode.

* {Showoff homepage}[http://puppetlabs.github.io/showoff]
* {Github project page}[https://github.com/puppetlabs/showoff]

Showoff allows you to author your presentation slides in Markdown, then organize
them with a <tt>showoff.json</tt> file. This file also contains metadata about
the presentation, such as the title, any password protection, etc.

Then you just run <tt>showoff serve</tt> in the presentation directory and open
a browser window.

[AUTHORING]
  This page describes how to write slide files. Showoff has many extensions to
  plain old Markdown, and this page describes how to use them.

[CONFIGURATION]
  Details how to configure your keyboard hotkeys. This is most useful if you have
  a remote that maps buttons to different keys than expected.

[FORMS]
  Learn about Showoff's form authoring extensions and write your own quizzes and
  polls directly in your presentation.

[INSTALLATION]
  Installation instructions, or building your own gem.

[INTERACTION]
  Describes the different ways you can interact with your audience.

[PRESENTATION]
  Describes the <tt>showoff.json</tt> presentation definition file.

[USAGE]
  Starting the Showoff server and the different URL endpoints available for use.
