= Slide Format

You can break your slides up into sections of however many subdirectories deep
you need.  ShowOff will recursively check all the directories mentioned in
your <tt>showoff.json</tt> file for any markdown files (.md).  Each markdown file can
have any number of slides in it, separating each slide with the '!SLIDE'
keyword and optional slide styles.

For example, if you run '<tt>showoff create my_new_pres</tt>' it will create a new
starter presentation for you with one .md file at one/slide.md which will have
the following contents:

    !SLIDE

    # My Presentation #

    !SLIDE bullets incremental transition=fade

    # Bullet Points #

    * first point
    * second point
    * third point

That represents two slides, the first contains just a large title, and the
second is faded into view showing the title and three bullets that are then
incrementally shown. In order for ShowOff to see those slides, your
<tt>showoff.json</tt> file needs to look something like this:

    {
      "name": "Something",
      "description": "Example Presentation",
      "sections": [
        {"section":"one"}
      ]
    }

If you have multiple sections in your talk, you can make this json
array include all the sections you want to show in which order you
want to show them. Template configuration is done in
<tt>showoff.json</tt> as well.

Instead of a hash, you can use a plain string as an entry in the
<tt>sections</tt> section of <tt>showoff.json</tt>. And if that plain string starts
with '#' then it is interpreted not as a filename, but as
markdown. This is used for inserting interstitial slides or notes --
for instance, Alex Chaffee's {Ruby
Notes}[http://github.com/alexch/ruby_notes] uses it to insert lab
instructions between lecture slide sections, which may vary from venue
to venue.

You can use angle brackets around the `!SLIDE` keyword and styles, if you'd like.
For example:

    <!SLIDE bullets incremental transition=fade>

This lets you keep the ability to emit an HTML document from your Markdown source
file -- say, for a TextMate preview or a GitHub rendering

== Markdown Format

Showoff renders Markdown format as documented at http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax.
Extensions to the language are documented below.

= Slide Styles

Some useful styles for each slide are:

[center] centers images on a slide
[full-page] allows an image to take up the whole slide
[bullets] sizes and separates bullets properly (fits up to 5, generally)
[smbullets] sizes and separates more bullets (smaller, closer together)
[subsection] creates a different background for titles
[command] monospaces h1 title slides
[commandline] for pasted commandline sections (needs leading '$' for commands, then output on subsequent lines)
[code] monospaces everything on the slide
[incremental] can be used with 'bullets' and 'commandline' styles, will incrementally update elements on arrow key rather than switch slides
[small] make all slide text 80%
[smaller] make all slide text 70%
[execute] on Javascript, Coffeescript and Ruby highlighted code slides, you can click on the code to execute it and display the results on the slide
[supplemental] rather than adding a slide to the main presentation, add a slide to supplemental materials. See below.

Check out the example directory included to see examples of most of these.

= Supplemental Materials

Supplemental materials may be created by including <tt>supplemental</tt> and the name of a type
in the <!SLIDE> styles. For example, you might have a slide like

    <!SLIDE supplemental exercises>
    # Lab ~~~SECTION:MAJOR~~~.~~~SECTION:MINOR~~~: This is a lab
    ## Objective: Do something
    [... slide content ...]

The supplemental materials may be accessed at http://localhost:9090/supplemental/$type-name.
For example, the material described in the example above would be accessed at
http://localhost:9090/supplemental/exercises. If you have slides and supplemental material
that are related to one another, they could be contained in the same file. This makes
it extraordinarily easy to reorder the presentation.

= Slide Transitions

Transitions can be supplied through the use of transition=tname on the !SLIDE
definition, where tname is one of the following supported transitions:

- blindX
- blindY
- blindZ
- cover
- curtainX
- curtainY
- fade
- fadeZoom
- growX
- growY
- none (this is the default)
- scrollUp
- scrollDown
- scrollLeft
- scrollRight
- scrollHorz
- scrollVert
- shuffle
- slideX
- slideY
- toss
- turnUp
- turnDown
- turnLeft
- turnRight
- uncover
- wipe
- zoom

The transitions are provided by jQuery Cycle plugin. See http://www.malsup.com/jquery/cycle/browser.html to view the effects and http://www.malsup.com/jquery/cycle/adv2.html for how to add custom effects.

= Language Highlighting

Showoff uses {shjs}[http://shjs.sourceforge.net/] to highlight code blocks. If you begin a
code block with three @-signs followed by a programming language name, that line will be
stripped and the rest of the block will become sparkly and colorful.

    @@@ Ruby
    10.times { puts "Whee!" }

Supported languages include:

- Bison
- C
- Caml
- Changelog
- Coffeescript
- Cpp
- Csharp
- Css
- Cucumber
- Desktop
- Diff
- Erlang
- Flex
- Glsl
- Haxe
- Html
- Ini
- Java
- Javascript
- Javascript_dom
- Latex
- Ldap
- Log
- Lsm
- M4
- Makefile
- Oracle
- Pascal
- Perl
- Php
- Prolog
- Properties
- Puppet
- Puppet_output
- Python
- Ruby
- Scala
- Sh
- Shell
- Slang
- Sml
- Spec
- Sql
- Tcl
- Xml
- Xorg

Instructions for adding support for new languages can be found at http://shjs.sourceforge.net/doc/documentation.html

= Sections

== Presenter Notes

Surround presenter notes with <tt>~~SECTION:notes~~</tt> and <tt>~~ENDSECTION~~</tt> tags. It will
display in the bottom section of the presenter view. The footer on the display window
will also  display shorter notes. Toggle these with the n key while in the presentation.

    ~~~SECTION:notes~~~

    This is a presenter note example.

    ~~~ENDSECTION~~~

== Handout Notes

Surround handout notes with <tt>~~SECTION:handouts~~</tt> and <tt>~~ENDSECTION~~</tt> tags. It will
display below the slide in the printed version..

    ~~~SECTION:handouts~~~

    This is supplementary material that will only appear in the printed version.

    ~~~ENDSECTION~~~

Handout notes are best viewed by printing the <tt>/onepage</tt> view from your browser. Each slide will
be printed on a new page and handout notes will be included below the slide contents. Handout notes can
contain any markup that the slide itself can.

= Other Tags

[~~~SECTION:MAJOR~~~]
  This is the section major number. It is a counter that increments each time a subsection tag is
  encountered.

[~~~SECTION:MINOR~~~]
  This is the section minor number. It is incremented each time it is used and reset each time a
  subsection tag is encountered.

[~~~FILE:filename.ext~~~]
[~~~FILE:filename.ext:filetype~~~]
  Includes the content of a file in the <tt>_files</tt> directory on the slide as code. If the
  optional <tt>filetype</tt> is included then the code block will be syntax highlighted appropriately.

[~~~PAGEBREAK~~~]
  Just generates a <code><div class="break">continued...</div></code> HTML snippet which is styled
  as a hard page break in modern HTML rendering engines.

[~~~TOC~~~]
  Generates a Table of Contents using the subsection titles. Some renderers (such as
  PrinceXML[http://www.princexml.com]) are able to autonumber the table with links to content.

= Preshow

If you want to show a slideshow while you wait to speak, you can run a preshow.  Add a <tt>_preshow</tt> directory
to your project (I use a symlink, so I don't have to add all the images into Git), put a bunch of images in the <tt>_preshow</tt> directory and optionally add a <tt>preshow.json</tt> file that provides descriptions for any of the images.
If you then press 'p' at the beginning of your presentation, it will prompt you for a number of minutes until
you start.  Then it will count down the time until then, flipping through your pictures to entertain the
audience in the meantime.  Press 'p' again to stop, or wait until the timer runs out.

= Download Files

Add a line that starts with <tt>.download</tt> and contains the name of a file in the <tt>_files</tt>
subdirectory of your presentation.

    .download file.tar.gz

Once the instructor has viewed the next slide in your presentation, the file listed here will
be available to download on the <tt>/download</tt> page. For example, if the file was referenced
on page #42, then the file would be listed when the instructor advances to slide #43.

<em>Note, this means only the *next* slide, not any subsequent slide.</em>

To share files on an ad-hoc basis, the instructor can simply drop files into <tt>_files/share</tt>.
All files existing in this directory will be listed when students hit the download page. Showoff
does not need to be restarted, even if you drop files in here during a presentation.


= Showing Plain Old Markdown

If a Markdown file has no !SLIDE keywords, then Showoff will treat every line
beginning with a single hash -- i.e. every H1 -- as a new slide in "bullets"
style. Remember that you can't specify classes or transitions in this mode,
and as soon as you add one !SLIDE you need them everywhere.


= Custom JavaScript

To insert custom JavaScript into your presentation you can either place it into
a file (with extension .js) into the root directory of your presentation or you
can embed a <code><script></code> element directly into your slides. This JavaScript will be
executed—as usually—as soon as it is loaded.

If you want to trigger some JavaScript as soon as a certain page is shown or
when you switch to the next or previous slide, you can bind a callback to a
custom event:

showoff:show:: will be triggered as soon as you enter a page
showoff:next:: will be triggered when you switch to the next page
showoff:incr:: will be triggered when you advance to the next increment on the page
showoff:prev:: will be triggered when you switch to the previous page

These events are triggered on the "div.content" child of the slide, so you must
add a custom and unique class to your SLIDE to identify it:

    !SLIDE custom_and_unique_class
    # 1st Example h1
    <script>
    // bind to custom event
    $(".custom_and_unique_class").bind("showoff:show", function (event) {
      // animate the h1
      var h1 = $(event.target).find("h1");
      h1.delay(500)
        .slideUp(300, function () { $(this).css({textDecoration: "line-through"}); })
        .slideDown(300);
    });
    </script>

This will bind an event handler for *showoff:show* to your slide. The
h1-element will be animated, as soon as this event is triggered on that slide.

If you bind an event handler to the custom events *showoff:next* or
*showoff:prev*, you can prevent the default action (that is switching to the
appropriate slide) by calling *event.preventDefault()*:

    !SLIDE prevent_default
    # 2nd Example h1
    <script>
    $(".prevent_default").bind("showoff:next", function (event) {
      var h1 = $(event.target).find("h1");
      if (h1.css("text-decoration") === "none") {
        event.preventDefault();
        h1.css({textDecoration: "line-through"})
      }
    });
    </script>

This will bind an event handler for *showoff:next* to your slide. When you press
the right arrow key the first time, the h1-element will be decorated. When you
press the right array key another time, you will switch to the next slide.

The same applies to the *showoff:prev* event, of course.


= Custom Stylesheets

To insert custom Stylesheets into your presentation you can either place it into
a file (with extension .css) into the root directory of your presentation or
you can embed a <code><link></code> element directly into your slides. This stylesheet will
be applied as soon as it is loaded.

The content generated by the slide is wrapped with a <tt>div</tt> with the class <tt>.content</tt> like this.

    <div ref="intro/01_slide/1" class="content" style="margin-top: 210px;">
    <h1>jQuery &amp; Sinatra</h1>
    <h2>A Classy Combination</h2>
    </div>

This makes the <code>.content</code> tag a perfect place to add additional styling if that
is your preference. An example of adding some styling is here.

    .content {
      color: black;
      font-family: helvetica, arial;
    }
    h1, h2 {
      color: rgb(79, 180, 226);
      font-family: Georgia;
    }
    .content::after {
      position: absolute;
      right: 120px;
      bottom: 120px;
      content: url(jay_small.png);
    }

Note that the example above uses CSS3 styling with <tt>::after</tt> and the <tt>content</tt>
-attribute to add an image to the slides.

= Templates

Templates can come handy if you need more than what you can achieve
via CSS. To configure templates you'll have to specify them in the
<tt>showoff.json</tt> by adding an entry called "templates". This
entry is an object where you can specify as many templates as you
want. The default template is marked with the "default" key.

     {
      "name": "Something",
      "description": "Example Presentation",
      "templates" : {
          "default" : "tpl1.tpl",
          "special" : "tpl2.tpl"
      },
      "sections": [
        {"section":"one"}
      ]
    }

If the "default" key is not given, no template will be used for the
default slide. If you want to apply a certain layout to a slide you
have to specify it in the slide header:

     !SLIDE[tpl=special]
     # Header

== Template Commands

You can place content anywhere in your template, but you have to
explicitly mark the location using a special command:

[~~~CONTENT~~~] is replaced by the slide content

[~~~CURRENT_SLIDE~~~] is replaced by the current slide number

[~~~NUM_SLIDES~~~] is replaced by the total number of slides

[~~~CONFIG:*~~~] is replaced by any value (*) from the <tt>showoff.json</tt> configuration. This can be used to specify an author, venue, etc. A simple example would be <tt>~~~CONFIG:author~~~</tt>

The usage of these replacements is not limited to templates, but
anywhere in your slides.

== Template Hints

You can basically put everything you want into templates, but you
should make sure that the CSS is applied fine. The best way to apply a
custom layout is to create a container that uses absolute positioning
and has width and height set to 100% which are then derived from the
parent slide element.


= Custom Ruby Files

If you want to have executable Ruby code on your slides you must set the
environment variable ENV['SHOWOFF_EVAL_RUBY']. This can be done with

    export SHOWOFF_EVAL_RUBY=1

or

    # On Heroku
    heroku config:add SHOWOFF_EVAL_RUBY=1


If you need supporting libraries when you evaluate the code. You can do this by
putting Ruby files (*.rb) into the root directory of the presentation then they
will be required when the presentation loads.

= Editor Support

The "add slide" feature can allow you to add the necessary boilerplate from your editor.

[TextMate Bundle]
  - Showoff.tmdbundle
  - Dr Nic Williams
  - http://github.com/drnic/Showoff.tmbundle

[Emacs]
  - major-mode - showoff-mode
  - Nick Parker
  - http://github.com/developernotes/showoff-mode

[vim]
  - <tt>!showoff add -t code Check This Code</tt>

  And your buffer will get

      !SLIDE
      # Check This Code #
          @@@ Ruby
          code_here()

  added where your cursor was.  Binding this to a keybinding can allow you to add new slides quickly.

= Command Line Interface

    showoff [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

- Use the command <tt>help</tt> to get a summary of commands
- Use the command <tt>help command_name</tt> to get a help for <tt>command_name</tt>
- Use <tt>--</tt> to stop command line argument processing; useful if your arguments have dashes in them

== Commands
[<tt>add</tt>] Add a new slide at the end in a given dir
[<tt>create</tt>] Create new showoff presentation
[<tt>help</tt>] Shows list of commands or help for one command
[<tt>heroku</tt>] Setup your presentation to serve on Heroku
[<tt>github</tt>] Setup your presentation to serve on GitHub Pages
[<tt>serve</tt>] Serves the showoff presentation in the current directory (or a given dir)
[<tt>static</tt>] Generate static version of presentation

== <tt>showoff add [title]</tt>

Add a new slide at the end in a given dir

[Aliases]
  - <tt>new</tt>

Outputs or creates a new slide. With -d and -n, a new slide is created in the given dir, numbered to appear
as the last slide in that dir (use -u to avoid numbering). Without those, outputs the slide markdown to
stdout (useful for shelling out from your editor). You may also specify a source file to use for a code
slide.

Options are specified *after* the command.

[<tt>-d, --dir=dir</tt>] Slide dir (where to put a new slide file)
[<tt>-n, --name=basename</tt>] Slide name (name of the new slide file)
[<tt>-s, --source=path to file</tt>] Include code from the given file as the slide body
[<tt>-t, --style, --type=valid showoff style/type</tt>] Slide Type/Style <i>( default: <tt>title</tt>)</i>
[<tt>-u, --nonumber</tt>] Dont number the slide, use the given name verbatim


== <tt>showoff create dir_name</tt>

Create new showoff presentation

[Aliases]
    - <tt>init</tt>

This command helps start a new showoff presentation by setting up the proper directory structure for you.  It takes the directory name you would like showoff to create for you.

Options are specified *after* the command.

[<tt>-d, --slidedir=arg</tt>] sample slide directory name <i>( default: <tt>one</tt>)</i>
[<tt>-n, --nosamples</tt>] Dont create sample slides

== Markdown Engine

It is possible to configure the markdown engine of your choice to use
with showoff. The following engines come preconfigured:

- redcarpet (default)
- bluecloth
- maruku
- rdiscount

Configuring an engine (or overriding it's default configuration) allows you to access special features of that engine.

=== Maruku

When you prefer using Maruku as the markdown engine of choice for your
presentation, you can use the LaTeX Math Mode features of
maruku. First you need
{BlahTex}[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Blahtex] and then
you need to configure your presentation as following:

     {
         /* other configuration options */,
         "markdown" : "maruku",
         "maruku" : {
             "use_tex" : true, /* required if you want to use LaTeX */
             "png_dir" : "images", /* optional */
             "html_png_url" : "/file/images/" /* optional */
         }
     }
