= Configuration Options

Showoff has a limited number of settings which can be customized.

== Custom Keymaps

You can re-bind keyboard hotkeys as needed. This works on an additive model, so
if you add a keybinding, the old binding will continue to work unless you also
remap it to a different action.

The actions you may choose from are:

[NEXT]
  Advance to the next slide.

[NEXTSEC]
  Advance to the next section.

[PREV]
  Move to the previous slide.

[PREVSEC]
  Move to the previous section.

[FOLLOW]
  Toggle the current window in and out of follow mode. When enabled, the window
  will advance slides along with the presenter. Audience view only.

[CONTENTS]
  Display a table of contents menu from which the user may choose a slide to view.
  Audience or Display view only.

[HELP]
  Display a small help dialog showing current keybindings.

[FOOTER]
  Display the single line footer bar. This contains progress information, notes,
  and debugging information. Audience or Display view only.

[BLANK]
  Blank the screen.

[PAUSE]
  Pause the presentation.

[PRESHOW]
  Run the preshow animation. This displays images from the <tt>_preshow</tt> directory.

[DEBUG]
  Show debugging information, such as keypresses and current slide name.

[NOTES]
  Display notes. This will either bring up the Notes Window from the Presenter view
  or show the first line of notes in the Display or Audience view.

[RELOAD]
  Reload slides.

[EXECUTE]
  Execute code from the first visible code block marked with <tt>execute</tt>.

[CLEAR]
  Clear the results of the last code execution.

== <tt>keymap.json</tt> configuration file.

Place a JSON file in <tt>~/.showoff/keymap.json</tt> with any keybindings you'd
like. You only need to include the keys you want to map, you don't need to
include all of them.

The default mapping is:

    {
      'space'       => 'NEXT',
      'd'           => 'DEBUG',
      'up'          => 'PREV',
      'left'        => 'PREV',
      'pageup'      => 'PREVSEC',
      'down'        => 'NEXT',
      'right'       => 'NEXT',
      'pagedown'    => 'NEXTSEC',
      'r'           => 'RELOAD',
      'c'           => 'CONTENTS',
      't'           => 'CONTENTS',
      'h'           => 'HELP',
      '/'           => 'HELP',
      '?'           => 'HELP',
      'b'           => 'BLANK',
      '.'           => 'BLANK',
      'F'           => 'FOOTER',
      'f'           => 'FOLLOW',
      'n'           => 'NOTES',
      'esc'         => 'CLEAR',
      'p'           => 'PAUSE',
      'P'           => 'PRESHOW',
      'x'           => 'EXECUTE',
      'f5'          => 'EXECUTE',
    }

Showoff will not load this file dynamically. You will need to restart when it's
changed.
