= Audience Interaction

Showoff has a number of features for interacting with your audience. These
features work with all modern browsers, even with Internet Explorer from 2+
years ago!

== Viewer Functionality

There are several ways that the audience can interact with you and the presentation.
If there is a connection problem making this interaction unusable, the controls will
be disabled and a disconnected icon will appear in the lower left.

=== Presentation Control

[Navigation]
  Pressing the left and right arrow keys, or the spacebar will cause the
  presentation to change slides.

[Follow Mode]
  Pressing +g+ will switch the viewer's presentation into follow mode. This
  means that each time the presenter switches slides, the viewer's presentation
  will follow along and switch to the same slide.

=== Presentation Feedback

The viewer will see a vertical grippy handle along the left side of the window.
If they move their mouse pointer over this handle, the <em>Feedback Panel</em> will
appear, exposing several control widgets.

To enable this functionality, please set the key <tt>"feedback": true</tt> in your
<tt>showoff.json</tt> files.

==== Live Interaction

[Provide Pace Feedback]
  The viewer will have two buttons to click, <em>Slow Down</em> and <em>Speed Up</em>.
  Each time a button is clicked, a message is sent to the presenter to help them
  adjust their delivery pace appropriately.

[Ask a Question]
  If the audience is large, the viewer is remote, or just doesn't want to ask in
  front of peers, a question can be typed into this box and will appear in the
  presenter's display control panel.

==== Material Feedback

[Provide Slide Feedback]
  The viewer can rate a slide, from awful to awesome, and provide a bit of free text
  explaining what could be made better on any given slide. The feedback and the current
  slide name are recorded on the presenter's machine for later analysis.

== Presenter Functionality

The presentation control panel provides many tools for interacting with your audience.
They are summarized here. This information exists in greater detail in the USAGE document.

If there is a connection problem making interaction with your audience unusable, a
disconnected icon will appear in the top right of the presentation preview.

[Pace Feedback Gauge]
  When the audience provides pace feedback for you, it will appear on this gauge. You should
  aim to keep the gauge near the center. The left side indicates that you are moving too
  slowly and the right side is too fast. The feedback messages decay over time and will
  expire in about five minutes--meaning that the gauge will move back towards the center.

[Update Follower]
  Allow viewers in <em>Follow Mode</em> to track your progress.

[Enable Remote]
  Allow remote windows, including mobile devices, to control the presentation by
  opening the presenter view.

[Audience Questions]
  When an audience member uses the anonymous <em>Ask Question</em> feature, it will appear in this list.
  The questions are listed in reverse order, with the newest at the top.

== Log Files

[<tt>viewstats.json</tt>]
  Each time Showoff starts, it truncates and creates a new statistics log file. This file
  records time that audience members spent looking at any one given slide. Only time that
  is greater than one second is recorded, and only when the viewer is not in <em>follow mode</em>.

[<tt>feedback.json</tt>]
  This log file is appended to each time an audience member has feedback for the material.
  It should be reviewed on a regular basis--or better, consumed by an automatic process--for
  important information on whether your material is having the desired impact on your audience.

  This file contains a rating and a free text feedback field. It is keyed by the slide name, so
  you can easily collate information grouped by slide name.
