= Internationalization

Showoff transparently supports both user interface localization and content
translation.  Each user will see UI elements and content translated to the
language their web browser is set to, assuming the proper translation exists.

== User Interface

The Showoff user interface, such as the sidebar menu and help dialog,will
automatically localize itself to the language of the viewer. The list of
supported languages can be seen in the
{repository}[http://puppetlabs.github.io/https://github.com/puppetlabs/showoff/tree/master/locales].
No configuration is required.

If you'd like to contribute a translation file, please follow the
{directions provided}[http://puppetlabs.github.io/https://github.com/puppetlabs/showoff/tree/master/locales/README.md].

== Content Translation

Showoff will present each user with content in the language of their choice.
It is the author's job to create the translations in the first place.

When the presentation is loaded, Showoff matches the language setting of the
user's browser against the <tt>locales</tt> directory. If it finds a subdirectory
matching the language, or one of the fallbacks, then that content will be served.

For example, if the user's browser was set to <tt>en-GB</tt>, then Showoff would
look for these directories in order:

* <tt>locales/en-GB</tt>
* <tt>locales/en</tt>
* default to main presentation directory

The structure of the translated presentation directory should match *exactly*
the structure of the top-level default presentation. The same relative paths
will be used to reference each slide.

Images or other media should also be located in the localized directory. This
allows you to translate any images with text as well. If you don't need this,
you can symlink the directory, or you can use relative parent paths
(<tt>../../</tt>) to point to the correct images.

== Browser Configuration

The language that Showoff selects is determined by the end-user browser settings.
In other words, if the user wants to see Spanish content, they should configure
their browser to prefer Spanish.

Each browser is configured somewhat differently. For example, the language
selection for Safari on macOS lives in the OS system preferences. On the other
hand, Chrome has built-in language selection underneath the *Advanced* section
of the settings and Firefox puts it under the *Content* section.
