= Creating a presentation

A Showoff presentation is defined by the contents of the <tt>showoff.json</tt>
file in the root of the presentation directory. It contains configuration keys
that define metadata about the presentation and describes the slides themselves.

== Example <tt>showoff.json</tt>

The following file describes a simple presentation with only a few slides. It
includes all current configuration keys, which will be described below.

    {
      "name": "Something",
      "description": "Example Presentation",
      "favicon": "file/favicon-example.ico",
      "protected": [
        "presenter",
        "onepage",
        "print"
      ],
      "validators": {
        "java": "javac",
        "html": "tidy -q -i --show-errors 0"
      },
      "parsers": {
        "erlang": "escript",
        "swift": "xcrun swift"
      },
      "user": "username",
      "password": "password",
      "version": "0.9.10.7",
      "encoding": "ISO-8859-1",
      "feedback": true,
      "ssl": true,
      "ssl_certificate": "/path/to/some/certificate.pem",
      "ssl_private_key": "/path/to/the/corresponding/private_key.pem",
      "edit": "https://github.com/username/presentation/edit/master/",
      "issues": "https://github.com/username/presentation/issues/new?title=",
      "highlight": "atelier-cave.light",
      "author": "Foo Bar John",
      "templates" : {
          "special" : "simple.tpl"
      },
      "scripts": "assets/animations.js",
      "styles": "assets/branding.css",
      "pause_msg": "Paused !!!",
      "sections": [
        "Intro/intro.md",
        "Intro/summary.md",
        "Content/first.md",
        "Content/second.md",
        "Conclusion/overview.md",
      ]
    }

== Configuration Settings

The configuration settings you may use are listed below. Please see the
{AUTHORING}[rdoc-ref:AUTHORING] section for more information.

[author]
  The name of the author.

[description]
  A one sentence description.

[edit]
  A link to a web based editor used when started with <tt>--review</tt>.  The
  path to the currently viewed slide will be appended and the resulting URI will
  be opened in a new browser tab. This is currently only tested with GitHub.

[encoding]
  The character encoding of the presentation. Defaults to <tt>UTF-8</tt>.

[favicon]
  The filename of a favicon image to use. Note that you must prefix the filename
  with <tt>file</tt> as shown in the example.

  If you place a <tt>favicon.ico</tt> in the root of your presentation, it will
  be used by default without setting this.

[feedback]
  Enable the interactive feedback features. Defaults to false.

[highlight]
  The {highlight.js}[https://highlightjs.org] theme to use for code snippets.

[issues]
  A link to a web based bug reporter. The currently viewed slide will be
  appended and the resulting URI will be opened in a new browser tab. This is
  currently only tested with GitHub and Jira.

[locked]
  An array of pages that will require a presentation key entered as a password
  in the login dialog. If a user has already logged in, that will take precedence
  and they won't be prompted again.

  [key]
    The key for locked pages.

[name]
  A short name for the presentation.

[parsers]
  Define any custom code parsers to run executable code blocks in your slides.

[pause_msg]
  The message to display when paused.

[protected]
  An array of pages that should require a user login. Usually used for the
  <tt>presenter</tt> view.

  [username]
    The username for protected pages.

  [password]
    The password for protected pages.

[scripts]
  Showoff will automatically include all javascript files in the root directory
  of a presentation. This is a list of additional scripts to include afterwards.
  This can be either a string path or an array of string paths.

[sections]
  The slide definitions for the presentation.

[ssl]
  Enable serving the presentation via SSL. If a certificate is not provided, an
  autogenerated one will be used. Defaults to false.

  [Warning]
  When using self-signed certificates, some browsers require that all viewers
  *permanently accept the certificate* in order for the interactivity features,
  such as pace feedback, to work properly. Form submissions are not affected.

[ssl_certificate]
  The path to the PEM format certificate file to use. See the note above about
  self-signed certificates.

[ssl_private_key]
  The path of the private key for that certificate.

[standalone]
  If you set this to <tt>true</tt>, then audience interactivity features will be disabled.

[styles]
  Showoff will automatically include all stylesheets in the root directory of a
  presentation. This is a list of additional stylesheets to include afterwards.
  This can be either a string path or an array of string paths.

[templates]
  A hash of templates to be used.

[version]
  The version of Showoff that this presentation requires. It will refuse to
  start and will display a warning message if the Showoff version is lower.

[validators]
  Define any custom validation scripts to run against code blocks in your slides.

== Defining slides using the <tt>sections</tt> setting.

The <tt>sections</tt> section contains the description of the slides making up
your presentation and the order they should be displayed in. You may either list
them in order using an array, or define sections using an array of hashes.

Array configuration listing each Markdown file:

    "sections": [
      "Intro/intro.md",
      "Intro/summary.md",
      "Content/first.md",
      "Content/second.md",
      "Conclusion/overview.md",
    ]

Hash configuration listing each section as a directory of Markdown files:

    "sections": [
      {"section":"one"},
      {"section":"two"},
      {"section":"three"},
      {"section":"four"}
    ]

Hash configuration listing sections as arrays of Markdown files:

    "sections": [
      {
        "section":[
          "Intro/intro.md",
          "Intro/summary.md"
        ]
      },
      {
        "section":[
          "Content/first.md",
          "Content/second.md"
        ]
      },
      {
        "section":[
          "Conclusion/overview.md"
        ]
      }
    ]

Hash configuration including sections from other <tt>JSON</tt> files:

    "sections": [
      {"include":"Intro/section.json"},
      {"include":"Content/section.json"},
      {"include":"Conclusion/section.json"}
    ]

Each of the referenced <tt>JSON</tt> files should list Markdown files in an array:

    [
      "intro.md",
      "summary.md"
    ]

Named sections, decoupled from filesystem layout. Notice that the section names
don't necessarily match the directory the files are in:

    "sections": {
        "Course Overview": [
             "Course_Overview/Course_Intro.md",
             "Course_Overview/Puppet_Certification.md",
             "shared/Table_of_contents.md",
             "Course_Overview/Course_Objectives.md",
             "Course_Overview/Course_Overview.md",
             "Course_Overview/Course_Agenda.md",
             "shared/demo_install.md",
             "shared/Lab-preinstall.md",
             "shared/Lab-install.md",
             "Course_Overview/Class_Architecture.md",
             "Course_Overview/Lab-update_ca.md",
        ],
        "Basics Review": [
             "Core_Concepts/Section.md",
             "Core_Concepts/Objectives.md",
             "Core_Concepts/How_Puppet_Works.md",
             "Core_Concepts/Data_Flow_for_Nodes.md",
             "Core_Concepts/resource_overview.md",
             "Core_Concepts/resource_type_code.md",
             "Core_Concepts/RAL_overview.md",
             "Core_Concepts/RAL_type_provider.md",
             "Core_Concepts/RAL_providers.md",
             "Core_Concepts/resource_imperative.md",
             "Core_Concepts/resource_idempotent.md",
             "Core_Concepts/describe_state.md",
             "Core_Concepts/Lab-create_module.md",
        ],
    }

Named sections by including <tt>JSON</tt> files:

    "sections": {
         "Course Overview" : "Course_Overview/virtual.json",
         "Session One"     : "Session_One/sections.json",
         "About Puppet"    : "About_Puppet/sections.json",
    }


== Running without a <tt>showoff.json</tt>

When you run Showoff without defining <tt>sections</tt>, or when you point to a
directory instead of individual files, Showoff will enumerate all <tt>*.md</tt>
files and assume that each is a slide file.

=== Protected presentations

There are two methods to protect your presentations. You can require the user to
log in with a username and password, by defining pages in the <tt>protected</tt>
array, or you may require viewers to provide a viewing key by defining pages in
the <tt>locked</tt> array. This key should be entered as the password of the
authentication dialog. The username is ignored.

A useful configuration locking down the presenter view and printing to authorized
presenter logins, but allowing the audience to view with only a viewing key is:

    "key": "{key}",
    "user": "{username}",
    "password": "{password}",

You can customize exactly which functionality is available to your audience. For
example, if you want to restrict access to the presenter, but allow anyone with
the viewing key to use the <tt>print</tt> endpoint to generate a PDF file:

    "protected": ["presenter"],
    "locked": ["slides", "print"],

If pages are marked as protected or locked, but no corresponding password or viewing
key is set, then only the presenter running on the presentation on the same machine
they're viewing with will be allowed access.


=== Custom code execution

Showoff can execute code from your slides and display the output if you start with
the proper flags. Parsers are defined for Perl, Puppet, Python, Ruby, and Shell.

You can execute code in any language you like by defining your own custom parsers
with the <tt>parsers</tt> key in <tt>showoff.json</tt>:

    "parsers": {
      "erlang": "escript",
      "swift": "xcrun swift"
    },

The parser is passed the path to a temporary file containing the code to be run.
<tt>stdout</tt> and <tt>stderr</tt> will be displayed in the output dialog.


=== In-slide code validation scripts

Showoff can validate all the code blocks on your slides by running <tt>showoff validate</tt>
by running validation scripts against each. Validators are defined for Perl, Puppet,
Python, Ruby, and Shell.

It's also easy to define your own custom scripts with the <tt>validators</tt> key in
<tt>showoff.json</tt>:

    "validators": {
      "java": "javac",
      "html": "tidy -q -i --show-errors 0"
    },

The validator is passed the path to a temporary file containing the code to be checked.
Any output is suppressed and a non-zero exit code is considered to be a failure.

Add a class of <tt>no-validate</tt> to skip validation for a block of code.

    @@@ Ruby no-validate
    # Do you see the error here?
    # The difference between == and = is easy to miss
    # and many languages won't warn you about it.
    def fibonacci(n)
      raise "undefined" if n < 0
      succ = 1
      curr = 0
      n.times {succ, curr == succ + curr, succ}
      curr
    end


== Markdown Engine

It is possible to configure the markdown engine of your choice to use
with showoff. The following engines are available:

- redcarpet (default)
- bluecloth
- maruku
- kramdown
- rdiscount
- commonmark

You may configure special options of your markdown engine by including an
options hash keyed off the markdown engine name in your configuration file.
For example:

    "markdown" : "kramdown",
    "kramdown" : {
       "space_after_headers": true
    }


Configuring an engine (or overriding its default configuration) allows you to
access special features of that engine.

=== Default options

Showoff configures default options for some of the Markdown engines. These
defaults can be disabled in your <tt>showoff.json</tt> file if needed.

Defaults for each engine are:

[redcarpet]

  https://github.com/vmg/redcarpet

    "redcarpet" : {
      "autolink"          : true,
      "no_intra_emphasis" : true,
      "strikethrough"     : true,
      "superscript"       : true,
      "tables"            : true,
      "underline"         : true
    }

[bluecloth]

  https://github.com/ged/bluecloth/blob/master/lib/bluecloth.rb

    "bluecloth" : {
      "auto_links"        : true,
      "definition_lists"  : true,
      "strikethrough"     : true,
      "superscript"       : true,
      "tables"            : true
    }

[rdiscount]

  https://github.com/davidfstr/rdiscount/blob/master/lib/rdiscount.rb

    "rdiscount" : {
      "autolink"          : true
    }

=== Maruku

When you prefer using Maruku as the markdown engine of choice for your
presentation, you can use the LaTeX Math Mode features of maruku. First you
need {BlahTex}[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Blahtex] and then
you need to configure your presentation as following:

    "markdown" : "maruku",
    "maruku" : {
       "use_tex" : true,
       "png_dir" : "images",
       "html_png_url" : "/file/images/"
    }

Note that `use_tex` is required, but configuring the `png_dir` and `html_png_dir` are optional.
